Pathload2 Release  : Ver 1

Contents
-------- 
About Pathload2
Building Pathload2
Running Pathload2
Contact and other info

About Pathload2
---------------
Pathload2 measures the "available bandwidth" of your Internet
connection. The available bandwidth is the maximum bit rate
you can send to a network link before it gets congested.
For example, if your ISP provides you with a DSL 6Mbps downstream
link, but you currently utilize 1Mbps in that direction,
the available bandwidth will be about 5Mbps.

Pathload2 reports two results: one for the upstream direction
(from your network to the Internet) and another for the
downstream direction (from the Internet to your network).

Pathload2 differs from other "speed tests" because it does
not measure the throughput of a large TCP data transfer
(which is more related to the inefficiencies of the TCP
protocol instead of the link's characteristics). Instead,
Pathload2 uses active probing methodologies to estimate
available bandwidth in a way that does not depend on
a specific protocol or application, and also it does not
congest your link during the measurements.

The original version of Pathload was developed by Manish Jain
& Constantine Dovrolis.Pathload2 is a client-server version of 
Pathload in which the server runs at M-lab. Pathload2 was 
developed by Nachiket Deo,Partha Kanuparthy and Constantine Dovrolis.

For more information, please visit http://pathrate.org/


Building Pathload2
-----------------
Pathload uses the standard configure/make approach.
$> ./configure
$> make

After you have extracted the Pathload code in a directory,
run configure in that directory. Then run make.

You should then have the executable (pathload2) in the Pathload2 directory.
 

Running Pathload2
----------------

To do available bandwidth estimation, first run pathload2 at the client:
$> ./pathload2 [-v]

[-v] By default, client sends minimal output (fleet rate and final 
result) to terminal (stdout). To enable detailed output on screen, 
use -v (Verbose mode). 
   

Contact
-------
Constantinos Dovrolis
dovrolis@cc.gatech.edu
